Utility scripts
===============

A collection of scripts that may be usefull. Currently this includes:

    * *screenshot-ocr*: A script that takes a screenshot and runs it through OCR software.

screenshot-ocr
--------------

I created this script because i often get images of contracts and i had to type
customer-IDs, contract-numbers, ... by hand in order to search for them in the databases.
It uses three pieces of software that can be configured via variables at the beginning of
of the script:

    * Screenshot tool: By default it uses gnome-screenshot to create a screenshot of a
      selected area of the screen.
    * OCR software: By default it uses tesseract with english, german and german "fraktur"
      to recognize the text inside the image. The resulting text will be stored in a text file
      and text+image will be stored in a PDF file.
    * Viewer: By default it will use chromium-browser to open the PDF generated by tesseract.
      Chromium seemed like the best option (firefox might work too) because acrobat reader isn't
      usually installed in 64Bit linux systems and evince has trouble with correct copy/paste
      support (at least for the PDFs generated by tesseract).

The output of the script will remain in *~/Documents/screenshot-ocr/YYYY-MM-DD/filename.ext* (where
*YYYY-MM-DD* are year, month and day of the current day and *filename.ext* are the names of the output
screenshot, text- and pdf-files).

License
-------

MIT License

Copyright (c) 2018 Andreas Hubert

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
